#+title: notes on DAQ chapter internal review
#+latex_header: \usepackage[margin=1.0in]{geometry}

This document tracks work toward the final draft of the SP-DAQ chapter.

It has these main parts:

- Deadlines
- Guidelines
- Links
- High level "action item" check list
- Select comments from reviewers and others collated by chapter section.

In some cases, names are suggested to address an item.  If you think you can contribute to an item, please coordinate with anyone named.

Please check off items when they are completed and/or notify Brett and Georgia.  If partially addressed, please make some sub-item comment.

This file is best edited in Emacs in order to make use of orgmode for indentation, checkbox accounting, etc.

* Deadlines

- v4 draft (finalish) of SP DAQ chapter is nominally due to main editors *12 July 2019*.

* Editing Guidelines

To edit the chapter, either:

- clone and push directly
- fork and issue PR

*DO NOT EDIT OUTSIDE OF GIT*

If you are incapable of using Git, the editors will accept a marked-up PDF.

* Links

- Current PDF build of the chapter: https://dune.bnl.gov/docs/dune-tdr/vol-sp/vol-sp-ch-sp-daq.pdf (DocDB user/pass now needed)
- Chapter sent to internal reviewers (internal + LBNC): https://docs.dunescience.org/cgi-bin/private/RetrieveFile?docid=12841&filename=sp-daq-draft3-2may2019.pdf&version=3
- Risks spread sheet: https://docs.dunescience.org/cgi-bin/private/ShowDocument?docid=7995
- "Requirements" spread sheet: https://docs.dunescience.org/cgi-bin/private/ShowDocument?docid=11314

* [11/17] Action items from [2019-06-14 Fri]

Note: section, figure and table numbers refer to v3.

- [X] Brett: triage comments, collate by section, give ranking and opinions on who/how to address.

- [X] Giovanna: 1.2.1, improve text of the "requirement" table entries.
  - sent to Anne.

- [X] Brett: 1.2.1, contact Tim/Sam and Anne about options to break up the table, eg into top-5, other-top, and DAQ.
  - email sent, anne and sam out
  - they are considering it and will take up the discussion soon.
  - top-5 are being removed
  - new selected list is being chosen and spreadsheet is being uploaded

- [X] Brett: 1.3, remove table 1.5 and assure references are properly sprinkled in the text instead.

- [ ] Giovanna: 1.3.2, Upstream DAQ, make clear that DPM approach is baseline, CPU-centric is alternative.

- [ ] Allesandro: 1.3.4, Back-end DAQ, generally improve and add or remove 1.3.4.5 Data Model.

- [X] Brett: 1.3.5 CCM, ask Roland to provide suggested text and figures

- [ ] Roland: 1.3.5 CCM, provide suggested text and figures

- [X] Brett: 1.3.6 IPC, move to subsubsection.

- [X] Newbold: 1.3.7, Timing and Synchronization, make sure clock rate is consistent with current CE design.

- [X] Giovanna: 1.4.x generally make or suggest changes  as \fixme{}'s.

- [X] Brett: figure 12: replace with Frank's (Giovanna sent)

- [X] Brett: figure 13: remove

- [X] Giovanna&Allesandro: new 1.4.5 Plan for future development
  - empty section added
  - this change is revoked

- [-] 1.5 Production, Assembly, Installation and Integration.  In order:

  - [X] Georgia: add back Alec's text.  Maybe it was in IDR.
  - [ ] Alec: vet/update this text
  - [ ] Giovanna&Allesandro&Newold: iterate

- [ ] Giovanna&Allesandro&Newold: 1.6 Org and PM (I didn't write an action, so I guess just make sure it's a perfect golden unicorn).

- [ ] Giovanna&Allesandro: 1.6.4: generally check and also see if the risk levels can be "detuned" to not be so H.

* Collated review comments 


This covers input from internal reviewers:

- [X] Alec
- [X] Frank
- [X] Pengfei
- [X] Roland

and four LBNC reviewers.  Comments from LBNC reviewers are marked with their number like ``(r1)''.

Be sure to look at version 3 of the DAQ chapter in DocDB (see link above) when referring to the comments in order to match referenced page/line/section/table/figure numbers.  The version in Git has evolved.

** General [2/12] 

This section lists items needing attention in ways not easily identified with a specific section.

 - [ ] Need to manage expectations of technical level expected in this "TDR".

 - [ ] Giovanna: Need to add QA/QC section.  (I suggest this for 1.5.3)

 - [ ] Boosted Dark Matter may require less than 100 MeV threshold

 - [X] Give motivation for 5.4ms readout window, when 3ms was imposed on PDSP.  (Initially, 5.4ms was motivated to span one drift time on either side of the trigger time plus "a little extra".  The argument to use 3ms for PDSP is in part due to it being externally triggered).
   - add to 1.2.1.1.  Note, in principle, we can readout 1 drift time (or even less) as we say we can immediately readout subsequent which follows a given readout.  I say we will study this during commissioning to optimize the nominal readout time.

 - [ ] Describe how co-processor validation will be done given it requires hardware/firmware development beyond what is tested at PDSP.  Give more technical details.

 - [X] For CPU-centric hit finding and buffer, add estimate of power and space needed.
   - this is added in general

 - [ ] Add plan for deciding between baseline and option.

 - [ ] Almost no mention of PDS.  Should change any "TBDs" to our best understanding.

 - [ ] What SNB trigger/readout prototyping/validation has been or will be done?   See notes below on the "future development" section.

 - [ ] Understand why/if we need to ever read out duplicate data (Roland)

 - [ ] What actually will be the TPC sampling rate?  CE chapter has ~2MHz.  Reflect changes in this chapter as needed.

 - [ ] Repetitive, eg requirements repeated in a number of sections (r1)

 - [ ] Confusion in Computing group that 10 PB/year for "trigger primitives" (for Ar39 studies) will or won't be sent to offline disk or tape.  This is really a problem for Calibration to clarify.
   - sent email for clarification

** Typographical and consistencies [1/3] 

- [X] make consistent the spelling of artDAQ via a macro (made italic via glossaries, matches artdaq publication)

- [ ] Make "back-end", "front-end" consistent hyphen/abbrev

- [ ] consistent use of "Fig/Figure"

** 1.1 Introduction [1/2] 

- [X] use "main communication room (MCR)" via glossaries in text

- [ ] Georgia: change Figure 1 to use "main communication room" (not "on-surface...")

** 1.2 Design overview [0/2] 

  - [-] [1/4] Table 1.1 "Rates"

    - [X] This implies more than 30PB/year.  Add explanation to caption.

    - [ ] Josh: Check the SNB rate.  Maybe it is not using 100s?

    - [ ] Josh: Check consistency between 10MeV and 100MeV thresholds.  We say 100MeV in table 2.

    - [ ] Fill in the assumptions for CE calibration.

  - [ ] [0/7] Table 1.2 "Specifications"

    - [ ] Change caption.  These are more "assumptions" than specifications.  Need to coordinate with Tim/Sam.

    - [ ] general confusion over why top-5 are included, explain in caption (Note, main editors are considering to remove top-5 from chapter tables)

    - [ ] SP-FD-16 <0.5% deadtime needs updating and defining.  

    - [ ] SP-DAQ-7 is duplicate of this.

    - [ ] SP-FD-22 (30 PB/year). confusion over whether it is met or not

    - [ ] add a requirement regarding under and above ground power and space

    - [ ] Suggested requirement terms from Roland:

      - Timing accuracy, clock speed, synchronisation precision
      - Readout bandwidth
      - Trigger efficiency
      - Max trigger latency -> continuous temporary buffering
      - SNB trigger data window -> local persistent buffering
      - Delay for delivering SNB data to filter/FNAL
      - Trigger data reduction (incl calibration data) -> on site persistent storage
      - Power / space constraints
      - DAQ uptime requirement

*** 1.2.1 Requirements and specifications [6/10]

 - [ ] Georgia: Fix confusion over 4 vs 10 seconds latency vs buffer.

 - [X] Alec: check power and number of racks.  Roland says 400kW and 60 racks, text has 600 kW and 52 racks.  See common/defs.tex for where the correct numbers should be set.
   - Alec confirms 500 kVA of usable power and at least 52 racks, of which 4 are not-DAQ.
   - made macros for ~\cucpower~, ~\cucracks~, ~\daqpower~ and ~\daqracks~ in ~common/defs.tex~

 - [ ] Josh: make sure SNB data rate is consistent with table 1.1

 - [X] delete "1.2.2 Summary of key parameters" section heading

 - [ ] Georgia: table 1.3, replace "TBD" with something PDS entries 

 - [ ] Add more key parameters: buffer time, latency, time to transfer SNB to offline.

 - [X] Josh: Table 7.1 – how is cold elec calibration data size estimated? (r1)
   - I (bv) think it was based on what protodune needed for gain/peaking time scans
   - set to 4TB to match Josh's technote and add "scaled from pdsp experience", emailed to check

 - [X] Alec: 1.2.1.2 what size racks?  ATLAS using extra tall ones.  (r1)
   - I danced around this by giving total U.  Even with 42U racks, there's plenty of space

 - [X] Brett: 1.2.1.2 limited by power or by space? (r1)
   - add initial details but seeking input
   - Add Alessandro's numbers

 - [X] 1.2.1.2 what reduction do you expect to get from lossless compression? How is this estimated? (pDUNE?) How does this interplay with &lt; 30 PB/yr limit? Ie. do you mean fully uncompressed data, or compressed? (r1)
   - add words about using "modified Huffman".

*** 1.2.2 Summary of key parameters

- [X] Vague. (r2)

  - note, this section is already removed, table kept.  Maybe that's sufficient.

- [ ] Table 1.3 supply "TBDs" (r2)

- [X] "BE" not defined near use. (r2)
  - this is already fixed post v3.

*** 1.2.3 Interfaces [2/5]

 - [X] Computing: clarify 30PB/year is to tape, not necessarily what is sent to FNAL.

 - [ ] Cussans: Add mention of timing/sync?  

 - [ ] Roland: Add an "interface design" diagram 

 - [ ] Cussans: In T&S, why is timing +/- 500ns when the clock is 62.5MHz (? by Roland)

 - [X] Hucheng: The data transmission to FELIX uses commercial 10 Gbps optical links. This is a rather modest rate for existing commercial links, certainly projecting a few years ahead. Would you benefit from using (fewer) higher speed links? If so, is this under consideration? (r1)
   - sent Hucheng email: 
   - answer: 25 Gbps is considered but its the fiber run distance that drives the choice speed.  BNL did tests in 2018 that verify both OM3 and OM4 fiber support 10 Gbps over 300 meters.  Shorter runs may allow higher speed optical links.
   - added text in 1.3.2.1 Data Reception
** 1.3 Design

*** 1.3.1 Overview

- [X] Kurt: why 10 BE servers? (this number may have been "invented" by me, bv).
  - changed to "a few"

*** Figure 3

- [ ] add timing system 

- [ ] Roland: or, entirely replace with "component diagram"?

*** Figure 4

- [ ] Roland: replace this with a "deployment diagram"?

*** Figure 6

- [ ] Roland: replace with a component diagram?

*** Figure 7

- [ ] Georgia/Roland: bigger font, "much better data flow diagram or "table hierarchy diagram".

*** Figure 8

- [ ] Georgia/Roland: Increase font.  Replace with data flow diagram.  (bv: isn't this a DF diag?)

*** 1.3.2 Upstream DAQ

- [ ] many options being considered for processing, and it is stated it is “premature” to choose now. That is fine. However, it would be good to provide more information about what is already known (eg. lossless compression algo’s have been investigated, …), and what path will be taken to get to a better understanding and to being able to decide (and on what timescale). Eg. there are tests planned at pDUNE, or it all relies on simulation, or... It would also be nice to hear about implications of the various choices of implementations, such as on power and underground rack space. (r1)
  - power/rack addressed


*** 1.3.3 DS

- [ ] Giovanna: clarify confusion over which is baseline tech for TP and buffering. (also 1.3.3.1) 

- [X] Josh: Check 10 MeV vs 100 MeV threshold requirements.

**** 1.3.3.5 HFL

- [ ] Georgia: description is confusing
- [ ] Georgia: why is HLF in DS not BE?

**** 1.3.4.1 DFO

- [X] Kurt should check in general.

**** 1.3.4.2 EB

- [X] Kurt should check in general.


*** 1.3.5 CCM

- [ ] Roland: rewrite/redraw.

- [X] Brett: move 1.3.6 (IPC) to 1.3.5.x

*** 1.3.7 Timing and Sync 

- [ ] Cussans: more detail 

*** 1.3.x Redundancy and Fault Tollerance

- [ ] Roland: Add new section on redundancy and fault tolerance.

** 1.4 Design validation and development

*** 1.4.1 Design Validation and Development at ProtoDUNE and Other  LArTPCs

- [X] Giovanna: come up with a shorter title and restructure as needed.

- [ ] fix confusion between RCE and FELIX

*** 1.4.2 ProtoDUNE outcomes

- [X] fix baseline density of APA/FELIX/FEC

- [ ] elaborate on "several key demonstrations"

- [ ] Roland? config and control in PDSP is different that DUNE, so how does PDSP test this design element?

*** 1.4.3 Ongoing Development

- [X] says detailed scheduled can be found in ref. Would be nice to include a few dates, such as for the milestones listed here (r1)

**** 1.4.3.3 Data Selection Development

- [ ] Georgia: address Roland's confusion over what "latency" means in last sentence.  See hlfix marker

- [X] Phil: freshen figure 15b

**** 1.4.3.4 PTMP (changed name)

- [X] Brett: simplified and updated to recent development and tests at PDSP

- [ ] Brett: need another pass just prior to final draft to update with latest work.  An hlfix marks this

*** 1.4.4 Additional test stands

- [X] removed

*** 1.4.5 (new) Future Development

- [X] general statement added.

- [0/3] SNB, maybe 3 parts:
  - [ ] SNB trigger algorithm development plan:
    - Develop compact, low-energy (CLE) TC finder
    - Veto CLE TCs associated with nearby/recent high-energy activity
    - Run on PDSP, save TCs to file  
    - Mix in CLE TCs generated using SNB simulation
    - develop MLT level algorithm
    - validate by replaying CLE TCs via "real" PTMP nodes (75 TC sources -> MLT)
  - [ ] High rate dump
    - Acquire 4x M.2 SSD adapter card and SSDs to test host RAM-SSD write speed
    - Test using co-processor board
  - [ ] HLF
    - Georgia: describe HPC proposal

** 1.5 Production, Assembly, and Integration

- [X] in general fill in 

*** 1.5.2 Installation and integration

- [X] Add back text Alec wrote.

*** 1.5.3 Quality Assurance and Control

- [ ] A new section is needed

** 1.6 Org and PM

- [X] Giovanna, Allesandro, Newbold: give short intro
  - Ale added

*** Figure 20 org chart

- [X] Giovanna: add figure and words you presented at May collaboration meeting
  - Ale added

*** Table 8, Inst. responsibilities

- [ ] Giovanna, Allesandro: provide

*** 1.6.1 Consortium Organization

- [X] Alessandro: add general text and final diagram

  - [X] WG mandates are in DocDB

*** 1.6.2 Cost and Labor

- [X] +Newbold: rework WBS along with WG coordinators+
  - this is apparently going to be moved from the TDR text to another document or is in any case not the problem of chapter editors.


*** 1.6.3 

*** 1.6.4 Safety and risks

- [ ] Separate safety from risks. Looks like safety is completely infrastructure driven, but risks have a huge impact on the design. (from Roland)

- [ ] Address various comments on content of risk table from Roland


