\chapter{Executive Summary}

\label{vl:tc-execsum}




This volume describes how the activities required to design, construct,
fabricate, install, and commission the \dword{dune} \dword{fd} modules 
are organized and managed.  The \dword{dune} \dword{fd} construction 
project is one piece of the global \dword{lbnf-dune}, which encompasses 
all of the facilities, supporting infrastructure, and detector elements
required to carry out the \dword{dune} science program.    
      
The \dword{dune} Collaboration has direct responsibility for the design 
and construction of the \dword{dune} detectors.  Groups of collaboration 
institutes, referred to as ``consortia,'' assume responsibility for 
the different detector subsystems.  The activities of the consortia are 
overseen and coordinated through the \dword{dune} \dword{tc} organization 
headed by the \dword{dune} \dword{tcoord}.  The \dword{tc} organization 
provides project support functions such as safety coordination, 
engineering integration, change control, document management, scheduling, 
risk management, and technical review planning.  \dword{dune} \dword{tc} 
manages internal, subsystem-to-subsystem interfaces and is responsible 
for ensuring the proper integration of the different subsystems.   

\dword{dune} \dword{tc} works closely with the support teams of its 
\dword{lbnf-dune} partners within the framework of the \dword{jpo} to 
ensure coherency in project support functions across the entire global 
enterprise.  To ensure the consistency of the \dword{dune} \dword{esh} 
and \dword{qa} programs with those across \dword{lbnf-dune}, the 
\dword{lbnf-dune} \dword{esh} and \dword{qa} Managers, who sit within 
the \dword{jpo}, are also embedded within the \dword{dune} \dword{tc} 
organization.  The \dword{jpo} establishes the global engineering
and documentation requirements adhered to within the \dword{dune} 
\dword{fd} construction project, manages external \dword{dune} detector 
interfaces with \dword{lbnf}, and is responsible for ensuring proper 
integration of the \dword{dune} detector elements within the facilities 
and supporting infrastructure.  

The \dword{jpo} organization will evolve over time to incorporate the 
on-site team responsible for coodinating integration and installation 
activities at \dword{surf} under the direction of the \dword{ipd}.  
Detector integration and installation activities are supported by the 
\dword{dune} consortia, which maintain responsibility for ensuring 
proper installation and commissioning of their subsystems.  External 
\dword{dune} interfaces with the on-site integration and installation 
activites are managed through the \dword{jpo}.

The ordering of the subsequent chapters is chosen to provide first,  
additional detail regarding the organizational structures summarized 
here; second, overiews of the facilities, supporting infrastructure, 
and detectors for context; and third, information on project-related 
functions and methodologies utilized by \dword{dune} \dword{tcoord} 
focusing on the areas of integration engineering, technical reviews, 
\dword{qa}, and safety oversight.  Due to their more advanced stage 
of development, functional examples presented here focus primarily on 
the \dword{sp} \dword{detmodule}.
